---
title: Version 1
layout: "changelog"
nav_order: 1
parent: Changelog
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

{::options auto_ids="false" /}

# Version 1 Changelog

Version 1 is marked by the creation of the character document (now known as the old document). Prior to this event is version 0 and is lost to history. Version 1 is the period in which the game was not very balanced and its end is marked by the formation of the Scrutinization and Legislation Team (SaLT). This version has the largest changelog due to the existence of the Doc Runners which allowed virtually anyone to make any changes to the document without consulting anyone else. These changes were only able to be found using Google Doc's version history feature. Unless otherwise stated, most of these changes were not announced, although there may have been discussion on the topic before the changes were made.

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

---

## 1.7.2 {#v1.7.2}

25 September 2016. These changes were announced on Discord. Note that these changes were not implemented on the document on the this day. The Surrounded by X changes were implemented on the day before and the Protected by X changes were implemented on 9 October 2016.

### Statuses

- Surrounded by X now triggers on all commands that affect another unit.
- Protected by X now triggers on all commands that came from another unit.

---

## 1.7.1 {#v1.7.1}

20 September 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### Statuses

- Guard Break and Silence were merged into a generalized status called [action] Block that prevents a specified action from being used. Guard Break and Silence can still be used to refer to Guard Block and Spell Block, respectively.

---

## 1.7.0 {#v1.7.0}

10 September 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### New Features

- Players were now able to have two characters.

---

## 1.6.13 {#v1.6.13}

9 September 2016.

### Statuses

- Paralyze was removed as an alias to Stun / Freeze.
- Zombie was removed as an alias to Undead.

---

## 1.6.12 {#v1.6.12}

4 September 2016.

### Statuses

- Dizzy now only affects targeted actions.
- Bait now requires enemies to select the affected as a target for single target actions rather than automatically attracting them.

---

## 1.6.11 {#v1.6.11}

2 September 2016.

### Statuses

- Confused was removed as an alias to Dizzy. The affected can now hit themselves.

---

## 1.6.10 {#v1.6.10}

1 September 2016.

### Statuses

- X Aura [target] was added as a situational status with the following description: While this entity is on the battlefield, all targets gain "X". "Target" doesn’t have to be an individual, it can also be All Allies, All Enemies, or Everyone.

---

## 1.6.9 {#v1.6.9}

31 August 2016.

### Statuses

- Invisible no longer has an effect if the affected is the only one on their team.

---

## 1.6.8 {#v1.6.8}

30 August 2016.

### Statuses

- Multiple statuses of the same type that have a percentage value now only take the highest into account.
- Zombie / Undead now deal true damage instead of subtract health. True damage does not have an official definition at this point but defines it as damage that cannot be reduced by means that aren’t Mitigator.

---

## 1.6.7 {#v1.6.7}

29 August 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### Statuses

- Zombie / Undead now subtract health instead of dealing damage.

---

## 1.6.6 {#v1.6.6}

28 August 2016.

### Statuses

- Poison / Burn / Bleed are now classified under the status group DoT (Damage over Time).

---

## 1.6.5 {#v1.6.5}

21 August 2016. Some of these changes were announced, but a few others were not and could only be found from looking at the document.

### Statuses

- Multi-Mitigator was removed, reverting the 1.4.10 changes to Mitigator.
- Barrier no longer benefits from other defensive statuses and now apply overkill damage to the affected.
- Invisible now only affects effects from the enemy team.
- Invincible now only affects damage from outside sources.
- Bleed was added as an alias to Poison / Burn.
- Stun / Paralyze / Freeze now has a default activation chance of 100%.
- Blind now as a default activation chance of 100%.
- Berserk now causes attacks to randomly target an enemy.
- Bait is no longer overwritten by Banished or Invisible, but no longer has an effect if those statuses or Untouchable are present.
- One-Hit-Shield, later renamed to Bubble on the same day, was added as a good status with the following description: The target is protected by a Bubble. Nullify the first - instance of damage the target takes, then remove this status. Bubbles can stack and will fall off one by one.

---

## 1.6.4 {#v1.6.4}

20 August 2016. Some of these changes were announced, but a few others were not and could only be found from looking at the document.

### Statuses

- X Shield / X Spikes [n] was added as a situational status with the following description: When the target is hit by an attack, there is an n% chance to inflict a specified status on the attacker.
- Protected by X was added as a situational status with the following description: If the target has an attack or offensive spell performed on them, the target is dealt damage or a status effect as dictated by the spell with the Protected effect prior to the action.

---

## 1.6.3 {#v1.6.3}

18 August 2016.

### Statuses

- Untouchable [partner] was added as a situational status with the following description: The target is unaffected by any actions performed by the partner. "Partner" doesn’t have to be an individual, it can also be All Allies, All Enemies, or Everyone. A target with this status loses Bait, and can not gain Bait as long as they have this status.

---

## 1.6.2 {#v1.6.2}

14 August 2016.

### Statuses

- A variation of Spread was added called Omnispread which affects both spells and attacks.

---

## 1.6.1 {#v1.6.1}

13 August 2016. Some of these changes were announced, but a few others were not and could only be found from looking at the document.

### Statuses

- The weird status classification was renamed to situational status. Statuses in this classification may be good or bad on a case by case basis.
    - Because of this, Situational Status Immunity is no longer allowed.
- Blind causes all offensive commands to fail. It also now allows for a variable activation chance.
- Vampire now has a variable potency for the amount of HP recovered.
- Berserk was reclassified as a bad status and no longer increases damage dealt.
- X Sword / X Enchantment was reclassified as a situational status and no longer has duration of the status to inflict as a parameter.
- Immunity, Surrounded by X, and Bide, were reclassified as situational statuses.
- Spell Break was renamed to Spellbreak and was reclassified as a situational status.
- Sleep was reclassified as a bad status and no longer recovers HP.
- Confuse was renamed to Confused and was changed to be an alias of Dizzy.
- Quick was added as a good status with the following description: Acts first before anyone else. If an enemy and a player have Quick, the player shall have the initiative instead of the enemy.
- Freeze was changed to be an alias of Stun / Paralyze.

---

## 1.6.0 {#v1.6.0}

12 August 2016. These changes were announced on Discord. This was a major update that introduced Charge Potential as a way to rebalance the Charge mechanic.

### New Features

- Charge Potential was introduced, which is the amount of Charge given when a unit uses the Charge command.

### Balance Changes

- Maximum base cooldown was set to 8 turns.
- Charge now only affects the final result of a command rather than all rolls. Default Charge Potential was set to accompany this change.

### Formatting Standardization

- Charge is now notated as either Roll + X or Charge [X].

---

## 1.5.1 {#v1.5.1}

11 August 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### Statuses

- Immunity now specifies that statuses that were previously inflicted will be removed when applied.
- Spell Break now causes the affected to become Invincible until their next turn instead.

---

## 1.5.0 {#v1.5.0}

10 August 2016. While a formal announcement was not made until a few days later, this was the date when it actually started based on messages sent on Discord.

### Balance Changes

- The Great Power Creep Removal of August 2016 started.

### Statuses

- Attack Up, Defense Up, Attack Down, and Defense Down now allows for potency as a percentage.
- Lifelink now applies HP changes both ways.

---

## 1.4.13 {#v1.4.13}

9 August 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### Statuses

- Undead / Zombie was reclassified as a bad status. Its order was also switched to Zombie / Undead on the document.

---

## 1.4.12 {#v1.4.12}

7 August 2016. These changes were announced on Discord.

### Minor Changes

- An n% chance now succeeds if the result of a 1d100 ≤ n.

### Statuses

- Spell Break [n] was added as a good status with the following description: When the target’s HP is n or lower, the HP is set to n and becomes invincible until the next turn. This status effect is exclusive to the bosses.

---

## 1.4.11 {#v1.4.11}

6 August 2016.

### Statuses

- A variation of Spread was added called Spellspread which affects spells instead of attacks.

---

## 1.4.10 {#v1.4.10}

3 August 2016.

### Statuses

- Reflect now affects special attacks.
- Haste is no longer affected by Sleep.
- A variation of Mitigator was added called Multi-Mitigator which also affects the total damage of a multihit.

---

## 1.4.9 {#v1.4.9}

28 July 2016. A message on Discord confirms this to be the case.

### Balance Changes

- Minimum base spell cooldown was set to 3 turns.

---

## 1.4.8 {#v1.4.8}

22 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Counterattack now specifies 1d30 instead of extra damage.

---

## 1.4.7 {#v1.4.7}

20 July 2016. Normally an update like this would not be able to be concluded from looking at the document changes, but an accompanying message on Discord confirms this to be the case.

### Balance Changes

- Highest max HP was lowered to 100.

---

## 1.4.6 {#v1.4.6}

19 July 2016.

### Statuses

- A variation of Distance called One-Way-Distance was added which only delayed effects targeting the affected.

---

## 1.4.5 {#v1.4.5}

17 July 2016.

### Formatting Standardization

- Statuses without parameters no longer used the square bracket notation to indicate duration.

---

## 1.4.4 {#v1.4.4}

16 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Dizzy was reclassified as a bad status.

---

## 1.4.3 {#v1.4.3}

15 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Bide no longer specifies its duration as a parameter.

---

## 1.4.2 {#v1.4.2}

14 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Berserk now specifies 1d30 instead of extra damage.

---

## 1.4.1 {#v1.4.1}

13 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Bait now only affects single-target attacks.

---

## 1.4.0 {#v1.4.0}

11 July 2016.

### Minor changes

- Reward spells no longer take up spell slots. They instead take up reward spell slots which there are five of.

### Statuses

- X Sword / X Enchantment added an extra parameter for duration of the status inflicted.
- Dicelock [m-n] was introduced as a weird status with the following description: Restricts the dice’s minimum and maximum value. Does not apply to chances.
- Surrounded by X was updated to specify that the effect applies prior to the command used.
- Life Link was renamed to Lifelink, was reclassified as a weird status, and was given a new effect to copy HP changes that the target receives to the affected. The original effect was given to a new status called Destiny Bond.
- Bide [duration] was introduced as a good status with the following description: Stores all damage taken. Has effects described by the spell in question.

## 1.3.4 {#v1.3.4}

10 July 2016.

### Statuses

- The 1.3.3 changes to Freeze were reverted.
- Petrify was removed.

---

## 1.3.3 {#v1.3.3}

9 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Undead / Zombie no longer has interactions with Poison / Burn and Vampire.
- Petrify was added as an alias to Freeze. They were reclassified as a weird status with the following description: Makes a target become immune to all status effects but Burn (for Freeze) / Poison for Petrify. If Burn / Poison is taken, both Burn / Poison and Freeze / Petrify will be cancelled. During Freeze / Petrify’s duration, the user will be not able to act, but will receive 10x less damage.
- Reraise [n] was added as a good status with the following description: If the target would die, remove this status and set their HP to n.

---

## 1.3.2 {#v1.3.2}

8 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Mitigator [X] was added as a good status with the following description: Any attack that would result in above X damage will do X damage instead. Multi-hit attacks will still hit and roll independently, but the total damage will be reduced to X if it exceeds X.

---

## 1.3.1 {#v1.3.1}

7 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Reflect now only affects spells.
- Haste no longer takes effect if Sleep is active.
- Counterattack now allows for a variable activation chance.
- Confuse now clarifies that if the command is blocked by Blind, Silence, or Guard Break, the command will still fail.
- Blind now overwrites Berserk.
- Banished and Invisible now overwrites Bait.

---

## 1.3.0 {#v1.3.0}

5 July 2016. This update features the second status overhaul, introducing status classification based on whether the status is beneficial or not.

### Statuses

- Status classifications were introduced. They are: Good, Bad, and Weird.
  - The following statuses were classified as Good: Attack Up, Defense Up, Invincible, Reflect, Regen, Haste, Vampire, Evasion, Spread, Immunity, Counterattack, X Sword / X Enchantment, Barrier, and Invisible.
  - The following statuses were classified as Bad: Attack Down, Defense Down, Poison / Burn, Guard Break, Stun / Paralyze, Freeze, Death Sentence, Silence, Slow, Banished, Blind, Life Link, and Surrounded by X.
  - The following statuses were classified as Weird: Sleep, Confuse, Berserk, Bait, Undead / Zombie, Distance, and Dizzy.
- Vampire now heals all damage dealt.
- Life Link now only kills the affected if all other linked units die.
- Surrounded was renamed to Surrounded by X to add the status inflicted into its name.
- Immunity now can specify immunity to a status classification.
- X Enchantment was added as an alias to X Sword.
- Invisible now only prevents the affected from being targeted.
- Paralyzed was renamed to Paralyze and was changed to be an alias of Stun and their effects were merged into the same status and allowed for a variable activation chance. Freeze kept its original effect.
- Banished can now be temporary and considers the affected to be defeated for its duration.
- Perfect Freeze, Failure, and Mirror were removed.

---

## 1.2.10 {#v1.2.10}

4 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Evasion now allows for a variable activation chance.
- Failure can now also cause Guard to fail.

---

## 1.2.9 {#v1.2.9}

3 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Invisible was added with the following description: The target cannot receive damage, have any status effects inflicted upon them, or be targeted by any kind of action.
- Barrier [n] was added with the following description: A damage absorbing barrier protects the target from any damage. When the barrier has taken n damage, it breaks, and the target is susceptible to damage again.
- Surrounded was added with the following description: If the target tries to perform an attack or offensive spell, they are dealt damage or a status effect as dictated by the spell with the Surrounded effect.
- Bait was added with the following description: Battle entities with this status automatically attract all attacks that are directed at their respective team.

---

## 1.2.8 {#v1.2.8}

2 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Statuses with unspecified potencies now default to 5 to work with outdated effects.
- Regen and Poison / Burn now allows for variable potencies.
- Mirror was changed to double damage instead.
- Dizzy now affects damaging spells as well and specifies that allies can be targeted.
- Failure [n] was added with the following description: Attacks done by the target have a n% chance to miss.

---

## 1.2.7 {#v1.2.7}

1 July 2016.

### Statuses

- Immunity now allows for only being immune to specific statuses.

---

## 1.2.6 {#v1.2.6}

30 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Dizzy was added with the following description: Attacks always hit a random target.

---

## 1.2.5 {#v1.2.5}

25 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Vampire now overwrites Undead / Zombie.

---

## 1.2.4 {#v1.2.4}

24 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Confuse rolls have different results when combined with Berserk: \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;1 - 12 - Attacks an ally (or yourself) \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;13 - 19 -Attacks a random enemy \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;20 - Attacks a random enemy with 30 dmg.

---

## 1.2.3 {#v1.2.3}

21 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Spread Amulets was renamed to Spread.
- Immunity was added with the following description: Target is immune to all sorts of status aliments.
    - This was later updated in the same day to not allow the affected to have any other status.

---

## 1.2.2 {#v1.2.2}

19 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Undead / Zombie now negates Poison damage and doubles Burn damage.
- X Sword [n] was added with the following description: On normal attacks, has 25% chance of inflicting a specified status effects for n turns.
- This was later updated in the same day to have n% be the chance to inflict the status with the duration not part of the status.

---

## 1.2.1 {#v1.2.1}

18 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Spread Amulets was added with the following effect: Can hit everyone on normal attacks.
- Counterattack was added with the following effect: When hit successfully, will counterattack with extra damage.

---

## 1.2.0 {#v1.2.0}

15 June 2016.

### Statuses

- All statuses no longer have a restriction on their duration.
- Attack Up, Defense Up, Attack Down, and Defense Down now allows for variable potencies.
- Stun was changed to be an alias of Freeze since they are now functionally the same.
- Perfect Freeze now causes the affected to lose 5 HP each turn.
- Slow was changed to the following: Can only act after the boss acts.
- The Paralysis status was brought back with the new name of Paralyzed. Its effect stayed the same, which was the same as Slow's original effect.
- Mirror was added with the following description: Hits twice in a single turn. Combined with Haste, it can hit four times if the user attacks twice.
- Evasion was added with the following description: Target has a 50% chance to completely dodge an incoming attack.
- Undead / Zombie was added with the following effect: Healing magic hurts you.
- Distance [n] was added with the following effect: The target’s actions, as well as actions affecting the target have a delay of n turns (where n is any natural number).

---

## 1.1.2 {#v1.1.2}

14 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Blocked was renamed to Blind and now causes damaging spells to only have a 25% chance to deal damage.

---

## 1.1.1 {#v1.1.1}

11 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Reverse Spellcard was renamed to Reflect.
- Berserk now only deals extra damage instead of higher damage.
- Life Link’s duration was changed to 3 to 5 turns instead.

---

## 1.1.0 {#v1.1.0}

9 June 2016.

### Balance Changes

- Cooldowns were added to spells.

### Statuses

- Life Link was added with the following description: Links one target’s life to another target for 5 turns. If one of them die, the other linked targets also die.

---

## 1.0.1 {#v1.0.1}

8 June 2016.

### Statuses

- Blocked was added as a status, with the following description: The target is unable to attack for 1 to 5 turns.
- Paralysis was removed as an alias for Slow. The status itself remains unchanged.

---

## 1.0.0 {#v1.0.0}

6 June 2016. It is unknown when these rules or statuses came into place but these were assumed based on what was currently on the document.

### Commands

- Attack - Attack a target for 1d20 damage.
- Guard - can decrease up to 1d20 damage received. If the attack has some sort of multiplier (like 2x damage), it is subtracted from the roll first before it is multiplied. You cannot stack Guard’s effects. Guard lasts one turn.
- Charge - Increases dice rolls by 2. The bonus is applied for multiple rolls as well if they belong to a multi-hit attack.
- Spellcard - uses a single spellcard from your deck. Up to 3 spellcards can be equipped in an incident.

### Damage Types
- Normal damage: 1d20
- Lower damage: 1d15
- Extra damage: 1d25
- Higher damage: 1d30

### Statuses

- Attack Up: Makes a target have their dealt damage increased by 5 for 3 to 5 turns.
- Defense Up: Makes a target have their received damage decreased by 5 for 3 to 5 turns.
- Invincible: Makes a target unable to receive damage for 1 to 5 turns.
- Reverse Spellcard: Makes a target backfires attacks back to their owner for 3 to 5 turns. Can also reverse status effects inflicted back to their owner.
- Regen: Makes a target heal 5 HP per turn for the next 3 turns.
- Poison / Burn: Makes a target lose 5 HP per turn for the next 3 / 5 turns.
- Attack Down: Makes a target have their dealt damage lowered by 5 for 3 to 5 turns.
- Defense Down: Makes a target have their received damage increased by 5 for 3 to 5 turns.
- Guard Break: Makes a target be unable to guard for 1 to 3 turns.
- Freeze: Makes a target be unable to act for 5 turns.
- Perfect Freeze: Makes a target be unable to act for 9 turns.
- Death Sentence: Makes a target die after 3 to 5 turns.
- Sleep: Makes a target unable to act for infinite turns. Can only get rid of this if it's hit. Heals 5 HP per turn during sleep time.
- Stun: Makes a target be unable to act for 1 to 3 turns unless specified.
- Silence: Makes a target be unable to cast any sort of spellcard for the next 3 turns.
- Confuse: Makes a target not perform the desired command for 1 to 3 turns. \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;1 - Attacks an ally (or yourself) \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;2 to 8 - Guard state \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;9 to 13 - Charges \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;14 to 19 - Attacks a random enemy \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;20 - Casts a spellcard which is not from your spellcard deck but from a boss. \\
  &nbsp;&nbsp;The desired command will be replaced by "Nothing happens"
- Slow / Paralysis: Has a 50% chance of actually acting for the next 5 turns.
- Haste: Acts twice in a single turn for 1 to 3 turns.
- Berserk: Attacks the enemy (with higher damage) without any command for the next 3 turns.
- Banished: Completely removes the target from battle.
- Vampire: When attacking normally, the target recovers HP equal to half the damage dealt.

### Miscellaneous

- Characters may have a passive ability.
- Characters have a limit of 10 spells and reward spells.
- Reward spells were rewarded for completing an incident. It is removed after being brought to an incident 3 times.
- Characters bring 3 spells into an incident.
- Reward spells have a limit of 3 incident uses.
- HP values ranged from 40 to 150.
- If battles take too long, Sudden Death activates and all damage is doubled.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 