---
title: Version 4
layout: "changelog"
nav_order: 4
parent: Changelog
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

{::options auto_ids="false" /}

# Version 4 Changelog

Version 4 is the current version of Shrines and Youkai. The major feature of this update is the introduction of the roles system. Discussion of these changes began on the 24th of March 2018 and the actual changes wre announced on the 27th.

Unless otherwise stated, changes were announced.

WIP. This page is currently incomplete.

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

---

## 4.4.1 {#v4.4.1}

7 May 2019.

### Statuses

- Spellbreak no longer removes DoT statuses.

---

## 4.4.0 {#v4.4.0}

21 March 2019.

### Balance Changes

- AP average minimum is set to 10.
- DPS standard is defined as 90 MAX HP/25 Damage Per Turn (DPT)/Some Utility.
- Tank standard is balanced around the trinity of Coverage, Damage/Utility, and Sustainability.
- Supports are expected to provide a strong impact via utility.
- All characters were rebalanced based on the above standards (known as the Great Buff Wave).

---

## 4.3.6 {#v4.3.6}

24 January 2019.

### Balance Changes

- Default Charge Potential was increased from 3 to 5.

---

## 4.3.6 {#v4.3.6}

2 January 2019.

### Statuses

- Vampire now affects all damaging commands instead of just basic Attacks.
- Force Target was renamed to Focus and is now a Bad status. It no longer affects randomly targeting commands and is no longer affected by Bait.
- X Dicelock can now use XdY rolls as a parameter instead of just m-n. Additionally Attack, Guard, and Charge Dicelock now directly modifies the AP/GP/CP.
- Priority was removed.

---

## 4.3.5 {#v4.3.5}

30 December 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Spell effects with a definite number of targets are considered statuses on the target(s) while spell effects targeting teams (field effects) are considered auras on the caster.

---

## 4.3.4 {#v4.3.4}

16 December 2018. This update was not announced since most players already knew about this effect.

### Statuses

- Force Target [X] was added as a Situational status with the following description: The target’s actions directed at X’s team must involve targeting X. AoEs that affect X are valid actions, random targeting automatically selects X as its target. Bait overrides this effect. If X is defeated, all instances of Force Target are dispelled.

---

## 4.3.3 {#v4.3.3}

9 December 2018. This update was not announced since this practice were already in use.

### Statuses

- X Aura was given a clause to specify that use based Aura are applied as shared uses.

---

## 4.3.2 {#v4.3.2}

5 December 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Spells can now be marked as PvP only.

---

## 4.3.1 {#v4.3.1}

20 November 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Reward spells are now tied to a character slot and will not be removed when a character is replaced.

---

## 4.3.0 {#v4.3.0}

28 October 2018.

### Balance Changes

- 3 is no longer the minimum cooldown for spellcards.

### Miscellaneous

- Requirements for replacing a character is now that they are required to have participated in at least one incident.

---

## 4.2.2 {#v4.2.2}

12 October 2018. This update was not announced.

### Formatting Standardization

- Custom commands are now italicized.

---

## 4.2.1 {#v4.2.1}

1 October 2018. This update was not announced since this practice were already in use.

### Statuses

- Spellbreak now clarifies that the affected gains Untouchable [Enemies] instead of just Untouchable.

---

## 4.2.0 {#v4.2.0}

28 September 2018.

### Statuses

- DMs can label statuses as Key Statuses: Statuses that include Spellbreak, mitigators, permanent boss statuses, and whatever else the DM decides. By default, effects cannot bypass key statuses. This makes "this damage cannot be reduced" not necessary to specify "except by spellbreak etc."

---

## 4.1.3 {#v4.1.3}

19 and 20 September 2018. This update was not announced since most of these practices were already in use.

### Statuses

- X Sword / X Enchantment were readded to be shorthand for Attack/Spell Enhancement [X].
- Spellbreak now removes statuses when triggered.
- Spread now applies to all commands if not specified.
- Bait is now unaffected by all randomly targeted commands rather than just spells.

---

## 4.1.2 {#v4.1.2}

14 September 2018.

### Statuses

- Haste can now have potencies greater than 100%, where each 100% is a guaranteed extra action.
- Reflect now only affects spell effects.
- Multiple Reraise now trigger simultaneously and revive with the sum of all their potencies.
- X Sword and X Enchantment was merged into [Action] Enhancement [X], which now applies X when the specified command is performed.
- Limit was added as a Situational status with the following description: This status' potency begins at n. When the target takes damage, decrease Limit's potency by the damage taken. If Limit's potency reaches 0 or lower, dispel Limit.
- [Action] Encore was added as a Bad status with the following description: If the target acts, they must perform the specified action. If they cannot perform that action, or if they have multiple Encores for different actions, they cannot act.
- Destiny Bond was removed.
- Distance was removed.

---

## 4.1.1 {#v4.1.1}

13 September 2018.

### Statuses

- Banished was renamed to Banish.

---

## 4.1.0 {#v4.1.0}

15 August 2018.

### Balance Changes

- Reward spells can only be brought to an incident two times instead of three.
- Reward spells made by a specific DM can only be used in that DM's incidents.

---

## 4.0.4 {#v4.0.4}

20 July 2018. This update was not announced.

### Statuses

- Bubble now only affects direct damage.

---

## 4.0.3 {#v4.0.3}

8 May 2018. This update was not announced.

### Statuses

- X Dicelock now defaults to all rolls if X is not specified. Its potency also no longer requires two values to be specified if both are the same.

---

## 4.0.2 {#v4.0.2}

16 April 2018.

### Statuses

- Priority [n] was added as a Situational status with the following description: The target cannot use Quick Effects in response to actions performed by units with a higher Priority. Units with lower Priority cannot use Quick Effects in response to actions performed by the target. Users without the Priority status are considered to have a Priority of 0. 
- X Sword and X Enchantment were separated into separate statuses. X Enchangement now only triggers on spells.

---

## 4.0.1 {#v4.0.1}

29 March 2018.

### Statuses

- Linked (&&) was added as a Situational status with the following description: Additional effect that can be applied to two or more statuses. The statuses in question are Linked, meaning that when one is dispelled/expires, the others are as well. && cannot be a standalone status effect. Notation for Linked statuses is as follows: Status One && Status Two.

---

## 4.0.0 {#v4.0.0}

26 and 27 March 2018.

### New Features

- Characters could be assigned to the roles of DPS, Tank, Healer, or Support.
- The default team composition would be 2 DPS, 1 tank, 1 healer, or 1 DPS, 1 tank, 1 healer, 1 support.

### Balance Changes

- The number of spells that can be brought to an incident was increased to 4.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 