game/status/petrify.md, before:

---
title: Petrify
layout: "status"
nav_exclude: true
parent: Statuses
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

# Petrify
{: .no_toc}

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

**Freeze** / **Petrify** is a weird status that is no longer in the game. See also [Stun / Freeze](/game/status/stun).

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 

---

## Effect

**Freeze** / **Petrify**: Makes a target become immune to all status effects but Burn (for **Freeze**) / Poison (for **Petrify**). If Burn / Poison is taken, both Burn / Poison and **Freeze** / **Petrify** will be cancelled. During **Freeze** / **Petrify**’s duration, the user will be not able to act, but will receive 10x less damage.

---

## History

| Version | Changes |
| :---: | --- |
| [1.3.4b](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.3.4b) | Removed with no reason given. |
| [1.3.4](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.3.4) | [Freeze](/game/status/stun) was changed to this effect with Petrify as an alias. |

---

## Trivia

- There was no notice on Discord that this change to [Freeze](/game/status/stun) was added. Since it was also removed the day after, once again with no notice, many players at the time did not even know this status existed.

Commit message:

Included more details on Petrify and Perfect Freeze

game/status/petrify.md, after:

---
title: Petrify
layout: "status"
nav_exclude: true
parent: Statuses
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

# Petrify
{: .no_toc}

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

**Freeze** / **Petrify** is a weird status that is no longer in the game. See also [Stun / Freeze](/game/status/stun).

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 

---

## Effect

**Freeze** / **Petrify**: Makes a target become immune to all status effects but Burn (for **Freeze**) / Poison (for **Petrify**). If Burn / Poison is taken, both Burn / Poison and **Freeze** / **Petrify** will be cancelled. During **Freeze** / **Petrify**’s duration, the user will be not able to act, but will receive 10x less damage.

---

## Development

On the 9th of July, 2016, Redrin changed [Freeze](/game/status/stun)'s effect to this and added Petrify as an alias that interacts with Poison instead of Burn. The day after, the changes were removed and Petrify was never actually used in game.

---

## Origin

Petrify/stoned and freeze/frozen are common statuses effects found in RPGs. Units under these effects cannot move, but some games allow fire attacks to remove the freeze effect. Some games also cause petrified units to negate damage dealt to them. Freeze usually doesn't negate damage, but some games do use ice as a means of creating shields or barriers which may be where this effect comes from.

---

## History

| Version | Changes |
| :---: | --- |
| [1.3.4b](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.3.4b) | Removed with no reason given. |
| [1.3.4](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.3.4) | [Freeze](/game/status/stun) was changed to this effect with Petrify as an alias. |

---

## Trivia

- There was no notice on Discord that this change to [Freeze](/game/status/stun) was added. Since it was also removed the day after, once again with no notice, many players at the time did not even know this status existed.
