---
title: Version 2
layout: "changelog"
nav_order: 2
parent: Changelog
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

{::options auto_ids="false" /}

# Version 2 Changelog

Version 2 started when the Scrutinization and Legislation Team (SaLT) was created. Characters and changes now required approval from a majority of the team. While officially starting and announced on the 27th of September 2016, the idea was initially discussed on the 25th and players voted for its members on that day.

Occasionally changes did end up on the document without announcement due the Doc Runners role still existing during this time. Version 2 lasted until the introduction of Attack and Guard Potentials. Unless otherwise stated, these changes were usually announced.

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

---

## 2.0.8 {#v2.0.8}

25 February 2017. These changes were not announced, but Power as a status modifier was already in use for months prior to it becoming official.

### Statuses

- Power [n] X was added as a situational status with the following description: Additional effect that can be tacked onto status X. The effect’s potency will increase by n each turn. Power can not be a standalone status effect.

---

## 2.0.7 {#v2.0.7}

24 February 2017.

### Statuses

- Energize [n] was added as a good status with the following description: The target gains n Charge per turn.

---

## 2.0.6 {#v2.0.6}

30 November 2016.

### Statuses

- Dicelock now included an option to only affect a specific command or spell and was renamed to X Dicelock as a result.

---

## 2.0.5 {#v2.0.5}

10 November 2016. This change was not announced or even considered to be official at the time, but it saw use and eventually did later on.

### Statuses

- Linked statuses were introduced.

---

## 2.0.4 {#v2.0.4}

28 October 2016.

### Statuses

- Multi-Mitigator was readded, reverting the [1.6.6](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.6.6) changes to Mitigator.

---

## 2.0.3 {#v2.0.3}

27 October 2016.

### Statuses

- Healing Up [n] was added as a good status with the following description: The target’s healing done is increased by n. n can also be a multiplier.
- Recovery Up [n] was added as a good status with the following description: The target’s healing received is decreased by n. n can also be a multiplier.
- Healing Down [n] was added as a bad status with the following description: Reduces the healing the target does by n. n can also be a multiplier.
- Recovery Down [n] was added as a bad status with the following description: Reduces the healing the target receives by n. n can also be a multiplier.

---

## 2.0.2 {#v2.0.2}

15 October 2016. These changes were not announced.

### Statuses

- Counterattack no longer deals increased damage.

---

## 2.0.1 {#v2.0.1}

28 September 2016. These changes were not announced.

### Statuses

- The [1.6.10](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.6.10) changes to Invisible were reverted.

---

## 2.0.0 {#v2.0.0}

27 September 2016.

### Balance Changes

- All characters or changes to characters now require approval from a majority (4 out of 7 at the time) of the Scrutinization and Legislation Team (SaLT) in order to be applied to the document. SaLT members may not vote on their own characters and will count as a denial.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 