---
title: Version 3
layout: "changelog"
nav_order: 3
parent: Changelog
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

{::options auto_ids="false" /}

# Version 3 Changelog

Version 3 started with two major rebalancing change, increasing the max HP of all characters by 1.5x and introducing Attack and Guard Potentials (AP and GP). Discussion on the topic began on the 25th of February 2017. The max HP increase was officially announced two days later. The first characters with custom AP and GP were approved on the 5th of March 2017 which is also when the max HP increase was applied. The ability to have custom AP and GP was announced two days later.

Version 4 was the update where standard roles were introduced on the 27th of March 2018.

Unless otherwise stated, changes were announced.

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

---

## 3.0.10 {#v3.0.10}

9 March 2018.

### Statuses

- Spread now affects all targeted commands. A variation of it called [action] Spread was added to specify if it should only affect some commands.

---

## 3.0.9 {#v3.0.9}

5 March 2018. This change was not announced.

### Statuses

- Block now affects custom commands if the original was blocked.

---

## 3.0.8 {#v3.0.8}

18 February 2018. While this change to the document was not announced, this change was already in effect for a while.

### Minor Changes

- Guard no longer takes into account damage under the effects of multipliers.

---

## 3.0.7 {#v3.0.7}

5 October 2017.

### Statuses

- Haste now has a default activation chance of 100%.

---

## 3.0.6 {#v3.0.6}

2 October 2017.

### Statuses

- The [1.6.6](/game/changelog/v1.html#v1.6.6) changes to Invincibility were reverted, allowing it to prevent self damage again. The new description also specifies that it does not affect status effects.

---

## 3.0.5 {#v3.0.5}

24 July 2017. These changes were not announced.

### Incident Options

- Incident rules template removed from the document.

---

## 3.0.4 {#v3.0.4}

13 July 2017.

### Miscellaneous

- The Doc Runners role was removed.

---

## 3.0.3 {#v3.0.3}

28 April 2017. The status changes were not announced, but the wording clarification was.

### Statuses

- X Sword / X Enchantment and X Shield / X Spikes now specifies that the effect is applied after the triggering command.
- Surrounded by X and Protected by X now specifies that the effect is applied before the triggering command.

### Wording Standardization

- The word "attack" now refers to commands that deal damage along with any other secondary effects. Blind's definition was changed to use "attack" instead.

---

## 3.0.2 {#v3.0.2}

27 April 2017. The Spellbreak change was not announced, but the reward spell requirement for character replacement was.

### Statuses

- Spellbreak now grants Untouchable instead of Invincible.

### Miscellaneous

- Character now require at least 3 reward spells to be removed to prevent players from changing them too often.

---

## 3.0.1 {#v3.0.1}

4 April 2017. These changes were not announced.

### Statuses

- Haste now allows for a variable activation chance.

---

## 3.0.0b {#v3.0.0b}

6 March 2017. While the results weren't announced, a poll was given out on the 26th of February 2017 to vote whether to remove items.

### Items

- Items were removed from the document.

---

## 3.0.0 {#v3.0.0}

5 March 2017.

### New Features

- Attack Potential (AP) was introduced, which was the range of values that the Attack command could roll.
- Guard Potential (GP) was introduced, which was the range of values that the Guard command could roll.
- Both of these had a default range of 1-20, however they could be freely changed to any range that averages 10-11. Any other averages would require a good reason.

### Balance Changes

- All characters had their max HP increased by 1.5x. The minimum was increased from 40 to 60, maximum was increased from 75 to 115, and average was increased from 60 to 90.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 