---
title: Version 4
nav_order: 4
---

{::options auto_ids="false" /}

# Version 4 Changelog

Version 4 is the current version of Shrines and Youkai. The major feature of this update is the introduction of the roles system. Discussion of these changes began on the 24th of March 2018 and the actual changes wre announced on the 27th.

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

---

## 4.10.1 {#v4.10.1}

25 January 2023.

### Statuses
- Roll Max was added as a good \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected’s dice rolls are set to the maximum.
- Roll Min was added as a bad \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected’s dice rolls are set to the minimum.
- Advantage \[n\] was added as a good \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's dice rolls are rerolled n times and the highest is chosen (defaults to 1). Potency decreased by Disadvantage.
- Disadvantage \[n\] was added as a bad \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's dice rolls are rerolled n times and the lowest is chosen (defaults to 1). Potency decreased by Advantage.
- Chance Up \[n\] was added as a good \<Chance Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's chance rolls are offset by n towards the beneficial direction.
- Chance Down \[n\] was added as a bad \<Chance Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's chance rolls are offset by n towards the detrimental direction.
- Lucky \[n\] was added as a good \<Chance Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's chance rolls are rerolled n times and the closest to the beneficial direction is chosen (defaults to 1). Potency decreased by Unlucky.
- Unlucky \[n\] was added as a bad \<Chance Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's chance rolls are rerolled n times and the closest to the detrimental direction lowest is chosen (defaults to 1). Potency decreased by Lucky.

---

## 4.10.0 {#v4.10.0}

09 November 2022.

### Miscellaneous

- Reward spells were removed.

### Statuses

- Permanent and Key statuses can no longer be modified or transferred.
- Status priority was added. Statuses can be followed by "+" (i.e. Status+) to indicate that they are evaluated before other statuses of the same type. Same with "-" to indicate that they are evaluated after statuses of the same type.
- Dicelock now modifies Potentials. “Omni” Dicelock is no longer possible. It was recategorized as a \<Potential Modifier\>.
- Command Potential Up \[n\] was added as a good \<Potential Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's Command Potential is increased by n.
- Command Potential Down \[n\] was added as a bad \<Potential Modifier\> status with the following effect: The affected's Command Potential is decreased by n.
- Dual spells are now equippable by either caster.

### Formatting Standardization 
- Dual spells are now listed under the second owner’s spell list as a bookmark.
- Effects that use the “Reduce \[n\] X” wording will now use “reduce X (or cooldown of X, etc) by n turns”.
- Effects that use the “Damage/Heal(ing)/Charge \[n\]” wording will now use “n Damage/Healing/Charge”

### Definitions
- Indirect (Sourceless) Damage is now just Sourceless Damage.
- Potential was defined as: The formula that determines the numerical result of a command. By default there is Attack, Guard, Charge, and Extend Potential.

---

## 4.9.1 {#v4.9.1}

19 March 2022.

### Miscellaneous

- Role restrictions for player characters were removed.

---

## 4.9.0 {#v4.9.0}

09 March 2022.

### New Features

- Players can now have a fourth character. They must be a DPS, tank, and healer, in addition to a fourth free slot for any role.

### Balance Changes

- The following are changes made to summons.
  - They act on the turn they are summoned.
  - They have no commands unless the potential of that command is listed or the presence of that command is specified in the passive.
  - Their role is considered to be SUMMON.
  - They can be marked as permanent. (i.e. "Permanently summon an X.")
  - They are Banished when defeated or when their summoner is defeated (unless permanent).

### Statuses

- Barrier, Reraise, Limit, and Focus now specify that they break.
- Having multiple Barriers of Dicelock of the same type now prioritizes the most recently applied.
- Covered and Lifelink now break when the Partner is defeated.
- Haste now only gets evaluated at the start of the move.
- Linked statuses now apply the same removal type to other when removed.
- BOSS now blocks Banish and Doom.
- Dizzy now only triggers if the original target is listed under Partner(s). If there are multiple instances of Dizzy that contain the target, it will instead randomly choose from the set of all units that all of the valid Dizzys contain.
- Invisible was realigned as a Situational status and it now takes a parameter which allows specifying which units can't target the invisible unit.
- Invisible and Untouchable now defaults to "All Enemies" when no Partner is specified.
- X Wish was added as a Situational \<Triggered Effect: On Removal\> status with the following description: When Wish expires or breaks, apply X to the affected.
- The \<Triggered Effect: On Time Out\> class was renamed to \<Triggered Effect: On Removal\>.
- Shield was removed as an alias for Spikes.
- Bait was renamed to Taunt.
- Protected by X was renamed to X Mark.
- Statuses whose duration is specified as (X turns) now expire X turns in the future and at the end of the source's move.
- Situational statuses with an non-predetermined alignment now have their alignment decided when a relevant effect is used.
- Status values can be tagged to specify how to handle reapplication.
  - \": reset value
  - ^: stack value
  - \*: cannot reapply

### Definitions

- Terms relating to status removal, value reduction or resetting, and command types were given official definitions.
  - Remove: When a status goes away.
  - Dispel: When a status is removed by an external effect. (e.g. spells, Immunity)
  - Expire: When a status is removed by its duration or uses running out.
  - Break: When a status is removed by its own effect (e.g. Barrier, Limit)
  - Undispellable: Cannot be dispelled.
  - Durationless: Cannot expire.
  - Unbreakable: Cannot break.
  - Permanent: Cannot be removed.
  - Key: Cannot be removed or bypassed.
  - Cooldown: Refers to the current remaining cooldown of a spell or command.
  - Base Cooldown(s): Refers to the starting cooldown(s) of a spell or command when it is performed.
  - Reduce: Lower the remaining cooldown of a spell or command.
  - Refresh / Reset: Setting a value back to what it was originally. This can be used for status durations and potencies, or for setting the remaining cooldown of a spell or command to 0.
  - Basic command: Attack, Defend, and Concentrate.
  - Default command: The basic commands, along with Spellcard and Extend.

### Formatting Standardization

- Summoning effects now use the following format:

```
For commands: (Permanently) summon a(n) X. {rest of effect}
For passives: This unit has a (permanent) summon called X. {rest of effect}

{name} - {max hp}/{max hp} HP {potentials separated by '|'}
Passive - {passive name (optional)}: {passive effect} OR Status: {permanent statuses}
(if passive is too long, it should go in the {rest of effect} section instead)
```

### Miscellaneous

- Guard was renamed to Defend.
- Charge was renamed to Concentrate.

---

## 4.8.5 {#v4.8.5}

11 January 2022.

### Statuses

- Death Sentence was renamed to Doom.
- The Triggered Effect: On Death class was renamed to Triggered Effect: On Defeat.

---

## 4.8.4 {#v4.8.4}

26 December 2021.

### Balance Changes

- Extend now consumes 2 actions instead of 2 moves and can no longer be prepared ahead of time if an ally isn't defeated.

### Statuses

- Over Time statuses now trigger at the end of the turn. If the status has a Power modifier, Power triggers after the status.

### Formatting Standardization

- Variables should now be bolded.
- Statuses are now required to use `Status [X] (n turns/uses)` notation.
- Characters with multiple named passives now show Passive -  on each of them to distinguish from commands.
- Spells with multiple possible cooldowns not determined by a variable now list the cooldowns in the cooldown line rather than specifying in the spell effect.
- Spells with optional Quick Effects now use the following format:

```
Regular Quick Effects (no change)
    Quick Effect: {condition}
    {spell effects}
Optional Quick Effects
    {spell effects}
    This spell may also be cast as a Quick Effect if/when {condition}
Optional Quick Effects with Common Effects
    {common effects}
    This spell may also be cast as a Quick Effect if/when {condition}
    In addition to the above effect(s), if cast as a Quick Effect: {spell effects}
Optional Quick Effects without Common Effects
    Quick Effect: {condition}
    If cast as a Quick Effect: {spell effects}
    If not cast as a Quick Effect: {spell effects}
```

---

## 4.8.3 {#v4.8.3}

10 April 2021.

### Balance Changes

- Healer guidelines were redefined.

---

## 4.8.2 {#v4.8.2}

27 March 2021.

### Statuses

- Enhancement was renamed to Boost. Enchantment was renamed to Enchant.

### Definitions

- The BOSS tag now specifically negates the effects of Bad Trigger Modifiers and Crowd Control effects.

---

## 4.8.1 {#v4.8.1}

15 October 2020. This change was not announced.

### Statuses

- Monitor was realigned as a Situational status.

---

## 4.8.0 {#v4.8.0}

9 October 2020.

### Balanace Changes

- All characters are required to have their AP and GP average 10~10.5 except for DPSs (AP) and Tanks (GP) or if they have a mechanic that relies on that value.

### Statuses

- The Misc. Status Mechanics class was added. The following effects were recategorized as this: Bide, Limit, Spellbreak, Power X, X Aura, Linked, and True Damage.
- The \<Triggered Effects: When Hitting\> class was renamed to \<Triggered Effects: When Acting\>.
- The \<Triggered Effects: When Being Hit\> class was renamed to \<Triggered Effects: When Acted On\>.
- The \<Action Modifiers / Crowd Control Effects\> class was renamed to \<Action Modifiers: Crowd Control Effects\>.
- Bubble no longer defaults to one use and now negates Secondary Effects.
- Confused was readded and now causes the affected to perform a random command. It was categorized as \<Action Modifiers: Crowd Control\>.
- Counterattack was changed to Countercommand and can now allow any command to be performed or any specified command. It was recategorized as \<Command Modifier\>.
- Cover was changed to Covered by \[Partner\] and now caused the enemy commands targeting the affected to be redirected to the Partner instead.
- Dizzy now takes a parameter to specify which targets to randomly choose from.
- Berserk was removed.
- Blind and Evasion now affects all enemy commands instead of just ones that deal damage.
- X Monitor \[Y\] was added as a Good \<Triggered Effect: When Specified\> status with the following description: When X is performed, the affected performs Y (without using an action) after X has resolved.
- Re-Act / Re-Command \[n%\] was added as a Good \<Command Modifier\> status with the following description: When the affected would be hit by an enemy action, the affected has an n% chance to perform the specified command without using an action before the hit has been registered. If Re-Act is used (i.e. a command is not specified), the affected can choose which command to use. Re-Act cannot trigger Re-Act.
- Reflect was renamed to Repel X and can now specify what kind of effects to reflect. It no longer reflects the affected's own effects. It was realigned as a Situational status.
- Stun / Freeze now skips moves and prevents usage of Quick Effects.
- Roll Up \[n\] was added as a Good \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following description: The affected's dice rolls are increased by n. Applies to "die sequences", not individual dice.
- Roll Down \[n\] was added as a Bad \<Roll Modifier\> status with the following description: The affected's dice rolls are decreased by n. Applies to "die sequences", not individual dice.
- Multi-Mitigator is now considered a separate status from Mitigator. They both have been recategorized as Damage Modifier: Damage Mitigator.
- Invincible now prevents the affected from losing HP.
- Spread was recategorized as \<Command Modifier\>.
- Death Sentence now sets the affected's HP to 0 instead of causing the affected to be defeated.
- Banish was recategorized as \<Target Modifier\>.
- Guard / Charge / Extend Enhancement \[X\] may now be referred to as X Blockade / Supercharge / Revival.
- Untouchable was recategorized as \<Effect Immunity\>.
- Spellbreak was recategorized as \<Damage Counting\>.
- Linked and True Damage were recategorized as \<Effect Modifier\>.

### Definitions

- The following keywords were defined:
  - Secondary Effect - Applies to all entities affected by the previous effect.
  - Negated - When an effect fails due to Invincible, Bubble, Evasion, Blind, or Untouchable. Prevents Secondary Effects, Enhancement, Spikes, and Countercommand from triggering. Miss can be used for Evasion and Blind.
  - Hit - When an effect is not negated. Effects are triggered per hit.
  - HP increase/decrease - Directly change HP without applying effects.
  - HP gain/loss - Encompasses both HP increase/decrease and healing/damage.
  - Indirect (sourceless) damage - Damage without a source or attacker. Only affected by Defense Up/Down, Barrier, and Invincible.
  - Quick Effect - Commands that don't cost an action to use and can be used outside of the user's move. An action used as a Quick Effect happens before the action responded to. Quick Effects typically have conditions for use listed in their descriptions.

### Formatting Standardization

- Quick Effects spells now must specify the condition in which it can be cast.
- Spell passives and Quick Effect conditions are now italicized.
- Attack no longer refers to damage dealing commands and now refers to the Attack command.

---

## 4.7.2 {#v4.7.2}

28 August 2020.

### Formatting Standardization

- Passives are notated as `Passive - Name: Effect`.

---

## 4.7.1 {#v4.7.1}

11 June 2020. This update was not announced.

### Formatting Standardization

- Turn components were given proper names and definitions:
  - Turn: Consists of all unit's move.
  - Move: The time in which a unit acts. Consists of one action by default.
  - Action: Performance by a character of in-battle effects.
  - Command: Attack, Guard, Charge, Spellcard, or Extend.

---

## 4.7.0 {#v4.7.0}

13 and 14 April 2020.

### New Features

- True Damage was defined as: Damage that ignores the effects of Damage Mitigator statuses.

### Statuses
- Statuses were assigned to classes:
  - Damage Modifiers: Mitigator
    - Damage Boosters: Attack Up, Defense Down
    - Damage Mitigators: Attack Down, Defense Up / Guard, Bubble, Barrier, Invincible
  - Healing Modifiers
    - Healing Boosters: Healing Up, Recovery Up
    - Healing Mitigators: Healing Down, Recovery Down, Undead
  - Trigger Modifiers: Evasion, Blind
  - Triggered Effects
    - When Hitting: Enhancement, Surrounded, Vampire
    - When Being Hit: Shield / Spikes, Protected
    - On Death: Reraise
    - On Time Out: Death Sentence
  - Roll Modifiers: Charge, Dicelock
  - Target Modifiers: Invisible, Bait, Focus, Cover, Reflect, Dizzy, Untouchable, Banish, LifeLink
  - Action Modifiers / Crowd Control Effects: Haste, Stun / Freeze, Sleep, Banish, Encore, Block, Enhancement, Berserk, Spread, Counterattack
  - Turn Order Modifiers: Slow, Quick
  - Over Time Effects
    - DoT (Damage Over Time): Burn / Poison / Bleed / etc.
    - HoT (Healing Over Time): Regen / etc.
    - CoT (Charge Over Time): Energize / etc.
  - Damage Counting: Bide, Limit
  - Effect Modifiers: Power, Aura
  - Effect Immunity: Immunity
  - SpellBreak: SpellBreak

---

## 4.6.0 {#v4.6.0}

3 November 2019.

### Definitions

- The BOSS tag was added with the following description: This unit cannot have its available actions restricted or the success rate of its actions reduced, and cannot have its turn skipped. By default, units with the \[BOSS\] tag have this as a key status, even if not listed, unless otherwise stated.

---

## 4.5.2 {#v4.5.2}

27 June 2019.

### Statuses

- Cover \[Partner\] was added as a Situational status with the following description: Whenever Partner would receive a negative effect, it affects the entity with Cover instead.
- Undead now has an optional damage limit per action. If there are multiple Undead statuses, the highest limit is used.

---

## 4.5.1 {#v4.5.1}

15 June 2019.

### Balance Changes

- Extend now allows the revived ally to act immediately upon revival.

---

## 4.5.0 {#v4.5.0}

12 June 2019.

### New Features

- The Extend command was added with the following effect: Skip this turn and your next turn. At the end of your next turn, revive one ally with 20% of their maximum HP, or 40% of their maximum HP if the user's current role is HEAL.

---

## 4.4.1 {#v4.4.1}

7 May 2019.

### Statuses

- Spellbreak no longer removes DoT statuses.

---

## 4.4.0 {#v4.4.0}

21 March 2019.

### Balance Changes

- AP average minimum is set to 10.
- DPS standard is defined as 90 MAX HP/25 Damage Per Turn (DPT)/Some Utility.
- Tank standard is balanced around the trinity of Coverage, Damage/Utility, and Sustainability.
- Supports are expected to provide a strong impact via utility.
- All characters were rebalanced based on the above standards (known as the Great Buff Wave).

---

## 4.3.6 {#v4.3.6}

24 January 2019.

### Balance Changes

- Default Charge Potential was increased from 3 to 5.

---

## 4.3.6 {#v4.3.6}

2 January 2019.

### Statuses

- Vampire now affects all damaging commands instead of just basic Attacks.
- Force Target was renamed to Focus and is now a Bad status. It no longer affects randomly targeting commands and is no longer affected by Bait.
- Dicelock can now use XdY rolls as a parameter instead of just m-n. Additionally Attack, Guard, and Charge Dicelock now directly modifies the AP/GP/CP.
- Priority was removed.

---

## 4.3.5 {#v4.3.5}

30 December 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Spell effects with a definite number of targets are considered statuses on the target(s) while spell effects targeting teams (field effects) are considered auras on the caster.

---

## 4.3.4 {#v4.3.4}

16 December 2018. This update was not announced since most players already knew about this effect.

### Statuses

- Force Target \[X\] was added as a Situational status with the following description: The target's actions directed at X's team must involve targeting X. AoEs that affect X are valid actions, random targeting automatically selects X as its target. Bait overrides this effect. If X is defeated, all instances of Force Target are dispelled.

---

## 4.3.3 {#v4.3.3}

9 December 2018. This update was not announced since this practice were already in use.

### Statuses

- Aura was given a clause to specify that use based Aura are applied as shared uses.

---

## 4.3.2 {#v4.3.2}

5 December 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Spells can now be marked as PvP only.

---

## 4.3.1 {#v4.3.1}

20 November 2018.

### Miscellaneous

- Reward spells are now tied to a character slot and will not be removed when a character is replaced.

---

## 4.3.0 {#v4.3.0}

28 October 2018.

### Balance Changes

- 3 is no longer the minimum cooldown for spellcards.

### Miscellaneous

- Requirements for replacing a character is now that they are required to have participated in at least one incident.

---

## 4.2.2 {#v4.2.2}

12 October 2018. This update was not announced.

### Formatting Standardization

- Custom commands are now italicized.

---

## 4.2.1 {#v4.2.1}

1 October 2018. This update was not announced since this practice were already in use.

### Statuses

- Spellbreak now clarifies that the affected gains Untouchable \[Enemies\] instead of just Untouchable.

---

## 4.2.0 {#v4.2.0}

28 September 2018.

### Statuses

- DMs can label statuses as Key Statuses: Statuses that include Spellbreak, mitigators, permanent boss statuses, and whatever else the DM decides. By default, effects cannot bypass key statuses. This makes "this damage cannot be reduced" not necessary to specify "except by spellbreak etc."

---

## 4.1.3 {#v4.1.3}

19 and 20 September 2018. This update was not announced since most of these practices were already in use.

### Statuses

- Sword / Enchantment were readded to be shorthand for Attack/Spell Enhancement \[X\].
- Spellbreak now removes statuses when triggered.
- Spread now applies to all commands if not specified.
- Bait is now unaffected by all randomly targeted commands rather than just spells.

---

## 4.1.2 {#v4.1.2}

14 September 2018.

### Statuses

- Haste can now have potencies greater than 100%, where each 100% is a guaranteed extra action.
- The [1.4.10](v1#v1.4.10) changes to Reflect were reverted, having it only affects spell effects.
- Multiple Reraise now trigger simultaneously and revive with the sum of all their potencies.
- Sword and Enchantment was merged into \[Action\] Enhancement \[X\], which now applies X when the specified command is performed.
- Limit \[n\] was added as a Situational status with the following description: This status' potency begins at n. When the target takes damage, decrease Limit's potency by the damage taken. If Limit's potency reaches 0 or lower, dispel Limit.
- \[Action\] Encore was added as a Bad status with the following description: If the target acts, they must perform the specified action. If they cannot perform that action, or if they have multiple Encores for different actions, they cannot act.
- Destiny Bond was removed.
- Distance was removed.

---

## 4.1.1 {#v4.1.1}

13 September 2018.

### Statuses

- Banished was renamed to Banish.

---

## 4.1.0 {#v4.1.0}

15 August 2018.

### Balance Changes

- Reward spells can only be brought to an incident two times instead of three.
- Reward spells made by a specific DM can only be used in that DM's incidents.

---

## 4.0.4 {#v4.0.4}

20 July 2018. This update was not announced.

### Statuses

- Bubble now only affects direct damage.

---

## 4.0.3 {#v4.0.3}

8 May 2018. This update was not announced.

### Statuses

- Dicelock now defaults to all rolls if X is not specified. Its potency also no longer requires two values to be specified if both are the same.

---

## 4.0.2 {#v4.0.2}

16 April 2018.

### Statuses

- Priority \[n\] was added as a Situational status with the following description: The target cannot use Quick Effects in response to actions performed by units with a higher Priority. Units with lower Priority cannot use Quick Effects in response to actions performed by the target. Users without the Priority status are considered to have a Priority of 0. 
- Sword and Enchantment were separated into separate statuses. Enchantment now only triggers on spells.

---

## 4.0.1 {#v4.0.1}

29 March 2018.

### Statuses

- Linked (&&) was added as a Situational status with the following description: Additional effect that can be applied to two or more statuses. The statuses in question are Linked, meaning that when one is dispelled/expires, the others are as well. && cannot be a standalone status effect. Notation for Linked statuses is as follows: Status One && Status Two.

---

## 4.0.0 {#v4.0.0}

26 and 27 March 2018.

### New Features

- Characters could be assigned to the roles of DPS, Tank, Healer, or Support.
- The default team composition would be 2 DPS, 1 tank, 1 healer, or 1 DPS, 1 tank, 1 healer, 1 support.
- Players can now have a third character.

### Balance Changes

- The number of spells that can be brought to an incident was increased to 4.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 