orig/game/status/mirror.md, before:

---
title: Mirror
layout: "status"
nav_exclude: true
parent: Statuses
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

# Mirror
{: .no_toc}

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

**Mirror** is a status that is no longer in the game.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 

---

## Effect

**Mirror**: All standard attacks do double damage for a specified number of turns.

---

## Development

Redrin added Mirror was added on the 15th June, 2016, in order to change one of Banana's spell effect into a status albeit the effect was slightly different. On the 2nd of July, 2016, Banana changed the effect to instead double the damage of basic attacks for unknown reasons. Two days later, Banana's character was reworked and the status itself was removed the day after.

---

## Origin

The name Mirror was given most likely because the spell that used it was called `Mirror Sign "Trick of the Dark"`. Mirrors create a reflection and as a result, causes a copy of an image to appear.

---

## History

| Version | Changes |
| :---: | --- |
| 1.3.0 | Removed. |
| 1.2.8 | Changed to double the damage of attacks. |
| 1.2.0 | Mirror was added with the effect: `Hits twice in a single turn. Combined with Haste, it can hit four times if the user attacks twice.` |

---

## Trivia

- Two months after Mirror's removal, percentage potencies could be specified for Attack Up which allows its 1.2.8 effect to be emulated using Attack Up [100%].

Commit message:

Added v2 changelog and added some events to the v1 changelog

orig/game/status/mirror.md, after:

---
title: Mirror
layout: "status"
nav_exclude: true
parent: Statuses
grand_parent: Gameplay Documentation
---

# Mirror
{: .no_toc}

<div class="row">
<div class="column content" markdown="1">

**Mirror** is a status that is no longer in the game.

</div>
<div class="column toc" markdown="1">
<details open markdown="block">
<summary>
Contents
</summary>
{: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>
</div>
</div> 

---

## Effect

**Mirror**: All standard attacks do double damage for a specified number of turns.

---

## Development

Mirror was created by Redrin in order to change one of Banana's spell effects into a status (albeit with a slightly different effect). Banana later changed the effect of Mirror entirely, but two days after that, Banana's character was reworked and the status was removed on the following day. It is unknown how many (if any) of these changes were communicated, or what the reasons for doing so were.

---

## Origin

The name Mirror was given most likely because the spell that used it was called `Mirror Sign "Trick of the Dark"`. Mirrors create a reflection and as a result, causes a copy of an image to appear.

---

## History

| Version | Changes |
| :---: | --- |
| 1.3.0 | Removed. |
| 1.2.8 | Changed to double the damage of attacks. |
| 1.2.0 | Mirror was added with the effect: `Hits twice in a single turn. Combined with Haste, it can hit four times if the user attacks twice.` |

---

## Trivia

- Two months after Mirror's removal, percentage potencies could be specified for Attack Up which allows its 1.2.8 effect to be emulated using Attack Up [100%].
